The Joe Rogan experience. Don't you agree? There.
Should be a minimum wage.
Th there's plenty of people that are bidding against me for those same workers.
Right. And so I have to pay the market rate. I can't just underpay them.
They'll go work someplace else. I understand.
But do you think there should be a minimum wage? No,
there should be zero minimum wage. Wow. That's, we've discussed that before,
but I still think there should be a minimum wage is because I think
individuals should be free to accept employment opportunities that they
want to accept. See the minimum wage doesn't hurt businesses.
It hurts individuals that have low skills, right?
And that's always the problem. When you,
when you have people defending the minimum wage bail are opposing minimum wage
hikes. They always say, oh, it's going to hurt businesses because you know,
it's going to increase their labor costs. You know what?
It doesn't necessarily increase their labor costs because they don't hire as
many workers. They hire skilled workers instead of unskilled workers,
they automate, they find ways to do without workers. They outsource, uh, they,
they, they hire people in other countries.
The minimum wage law hurts the most low skilled people.
And they tend to be young people, teenagers, minorities,
uh that's who get, get hit the hardest, you know,
before we had all these programs, you know,
that the black teenage unemployment rate once upon a time was actually lower
than the white teenage unemployment rate.
Now it's like double or triple as high. But before we had all these laws,
it was actually lower because they got disproportionately impacted by
the minimum wage law, which prices them out of work. I mean, basically.
When were these laws implemented? Well.
The minimum, which didn't really start until the great depression, right?
So it started, but it didn't apply to,
there were a lot of jobs that it were exempted from it.
So it really started kicking in more than 1960s. And then it really, you know,
started. Can I ask you this? Has.
Anybody ever tried to have no minimum wage as an experiment?
Like maybe a town or a city?
Well, first of all,
we had no minimum wage before it was implemented and we had much lower rates of
unemployment, real unemployment.
When you look at countries that don't have a minimum wage,
there's not that many left anymore. I mean,
most countries have made this mistake because the minimum wage is good politics.
Cause it sounds good. Right. If you're for the minimum wage,
it sounds like you care, right? Oh yeah. We, you know, who is anybody against,
you know, people working for low wages now. Okay. So it sounds good. Right?
But all you do is you destroy jobs and you destroy employment opportunities,
but there are countries like Singapore for an example has no minimum wage,
you know, but wait a minute. They don't, they.
Don't, they come in you Singapore, don't they cane you if you graffiti.
Right. I know they frown on that over there. That was,
that was a famous Alison talking about that. We talked about,
I know we're talking about wage. Carolyn does it really? I mean,
there's other countries that have some kind of weird minimum, but you know,
it's not the same as is ours. I feel like.
I feel like there could be a minimum wage and we still hold the same values
that you're talking about in terms of competition,
to keep people from getting with their employees.
Have you ever seen an employer like yelled their employees or like being like
one of those, uh,
corporate gathering situations where someone has a lot of
control over their employees.
Now imagine if that guy was making all the money and he was only giving these
employees a dollar an hour and making them.
Live in poverty, but slavery, I agree.
You only remain at your job if you like it.
If you think it's the best alternative, look,
people quit all the time because they can get a better job. So by definition,
if the best job I can get is the job I have and nobody will offer to pay
me more money than I'm not underpaid. If, if nobody will pay me more,
it's a free open market. There's all kinds of employers out there. And remember,
you're free to work for yourself. Nobody forces anybody to accept a job.
Everybody can start their own business. Everybody can be self-employed right.
So if you don't think your boss is paying you, what you're worth,
then quit and start your own business.
I completely feel where you're coming from,
but couldn't we just say that there's a level of
pain.
If you make someone work 40 hours a week and they don't have enough money for
food or shelter after 40 hours a week,
could we say that maybe that is not a good level? Like let's,
let's just as a community. So everybody agrees. We're all competing, but let's,
let's make it so that if someone is under your employment and it's a human being
and they're doing 40 hours of work every week,
they should have enough money for food and shelter.
That seems reasonable as a community. I know what you're saying in terms,
I know what you're saying from like this economic standpoint,
I know what you're saying. Like let free market capitalism, let it ride,
figure it out, get paid, what you're worth.
And if you don't feel like you're getting paid enough, quit.
I understand what you're saying, but wouldn't it be nice.
Backtrack then. Okay. So go ahead in general, right?
If you don't have any skills, right?
If the most you're able to earn at your job and let's say there's no minimum
wage and you're just a young kid, you don't have any skills.
And the most you can earn is $4 an hour. That's because again, it's,
you're paid based on your productivity.
Businesses are there to make a profit for the owner of the business because that
businessman is taking a lot of risk is bearing the potential for losing money.
Of course it has to provide, you know,
and so a businessman is not going to hire somebody if they're not adding
value to the business.
So if somebody can add $5 of value to my business,
I'm not going to pay him 7 25 an hour because I'm going to lose 2 25 for every
hour, that person.
So the only way I can hire somebody who is providing a $5 worth of
value is if I can pay him $4 and then I can make a dollar for every hour,
he works. I'm not, the business is not there to lose money.
They're there to make money.
So let's say you're a young kid and you could only provide $5 worth of value.
And so you get a job for $4 and your employer makes a buck an hour off of you.
Chances are you don't have a family. You're young,
you're living with your parents. You don't have rent. You don't have, you know,
so making a little bit of money is okay.
You just need some spending money to go to a movies or maybe go out on a date or
something. You don't need a lot of money.
What's important is the work experience, having that job,
developing some skills, getting your foot in the door.
Step on that first ladder of the job, the rung of the job ladder.
So that by the time you're 30 and you're ready to settle down and get married
and have kids.
You've now increased your skills to the point that you can make $50 an hour
where you can afford to support a family.
If you try to tell a business that you need to pay somebody who has
no skills and as minimal economic value,
if you have to pay that person enough so that you can support a family,
nobody's going to hire that person.
All you're doing is pricing those people out of a job.
So it's really good to say, it's not right. If somebody is working, uh,
and only making, you know, $10 an hour and they can't support a family,
it's not the employer's responsibility.
It's not his fault that he's hiring somebody that doesn't have a lot of skills.
And if you impose that minimum wage,
all you're doing is making it impossible for this guy to get a job.
It really what the minimum wage law is,
is it makes it illegal for you to work unless you have enough,
a certain amount of productivity. So if the minimum wage is $15 an hour,
what that means is if you only have $10 an hour work of productivity,
right? You can't work that you have to turn down every offer of employment.
You get. If someone offers you $10, $12, that's the illegal.
You can't accept those jobs. Even if you want them.
Even if you think that that's the beginning of the first step on a road to a
higher wages in the future, the government says, no, you can't accept that.
Unless you can find somebody who will pay you $15 an hour,
it is illegal for you to have a job. And that is not good economic policy.
That is,
and it's not even compassionate because now you've taken away all the honest
ways that somebody can make a living and they end up turning to crime.
A lot of times, I see what.
You're saying. And that, that actually makes a lot more sense.
The way you're framing it about like,
if you only provide $10 worth of value to the company,
why should they pay you $15? And I think I agree with you.
I see what you're saying. I see what you're saying.
And you're making me think about it in a different way, for sure. Um,
I think a lot of people would say, well,
if they're really only providing $10 worth of value,
do you really need that person? [inaudible].
I mean, $10 worth of value is still value. Yeah.
I see what you think of all these look, I get very, all the time. You know,
when I make phone calls and I can't talk to a human being,
I have to talk to a computer. And,
and the reason for this is because we've priced the human beings out of the
market. We don't know what else, kids.
What's a,
what's horrible about this for all of us is when you do do that and you know,
you're dealing with these computers. It's like, we're,
we're losing part of our connection. When it comes to doing business,
we're doing, I like if I do business with a company,
I like to be able to call them up. I like theirs. I'd love it.
If there's a thing, when I'm,
when I'm doing something I'd like to make contact with the person,
if everything is being done through automated systems,
it's getting weirder and weirder for us more.
And more detached. You remember,
do you remember the original batch of the future movie? Remember when, when he,
when he goes back to 1955 for the first time,
and he sees that car pull into a gas station and like five people descend on the
car and start washing the windows, checking the tires, doing all that stuff.
Right? What happened to all those people?
Because that's what the gas stations were like,
sort of for the minimum wage jobs. I worked.
In a gas station. Do you ever work in a gas station?
I never did, but I like, I delivered groceries. I delivered pizza.
I worked in a shoe store. I had all kinds of jobs in high school that, you know,
they'd probably kids don't have those opportunities today. They just, they,
they, you know, they think they can't get it. But going back to the gas station,
right. Be like pumping your own gas.
Um, I do because I used to,
I used to work at a gas station and I know what happens when you let kids pumped
your gas. I don't want anybody open. They spill it.
They up there at some weirdo has got a highly flammable fluid next to a piece of
your property and they get to stick it in there.
Look, I think if we didn't have a minimum wage,
you'd have a lot more kids working mostly for tips. And we used to tip.
If you remember, I'm still old enough to remember tipping the guy, then one,
my gas, right? Check your tires. But, but you know what used to happen?
These young kids that got low paying jobs as pump jockeys,
what they would do between Philips is they would go and hang out with the
mechanic was they're working on cars and they would get a free education and
auto mechanics. And they would actually learn a trade.
Have you been some of his guys? I mean,
we'd have more auto mechanics that get a skill.
Some of these guys would end up opening up their own service stations. Look,
it's, it's good to allow young people to have employment opportunities,
not the price them out of the market by just by mandating a minimum wage.
I mean the minimum wage benefits, high skilled workers unions by,
by eliminating competition with younger, lower skilled workers.
You're forcing employers to hire high skill people instead of a
more numerous, uh, number of lower skilled people that that's what happened.
Have you ever seen the movie, the hustler with Paul Newman? Jackie Gleason?
Yeah. It was a great movie. In fact, I saw the remake with, uh, with, um, um,
what's his, um, Tom cruise, um, cruise. Yeah,
but the point, my point is both good movies. They're great movies.
But in the beginning of the hustler,
Paul Newman pulls into a gas station and he tells the guy,
check the air and tires, check the oil, do all this. And the guy fill up Mr.
They go out there and they have like, they, they, they do all kinds of for you.
It's not just as simple as they pump your gas. They pump your gas,
check your tires, check your fluids. They do everything. But there was less.
People kept car. Two cars were in better shape because you know,
every time you went into a gas station, somebody made sure you had enough oil.
They made sure your tire pressure was good. Okay. More reliable.
Today. Those are, those cars were. Those cars like you had to check the air,
you had to check the tires. It was bleeding oil,
but it's just interesting to see the difference.
Look, they used to have ushers in movie theaters.
They would just show you to your seat with w w the,
there was the service sector has really been obliterated all these low skill.
Look, they're working on these kiosks. Now look,
they're going to get rid of all the workers. Anyway,
ultimately all these fast food restaurants,
there's not going to be anybody there.
They're all going to look like self-serve gas stations. You're going to go in.
You're going to order off your smartphone. And the food is going to come,
come down a shoot through some machine. You know,
th there's there's going to be nobody there.